Good afternoon, dear colleagues!
My name is Natalia Kormshchikova,
and today I will be with you
on the course
of managerial work.
I am a business coach
and have been cooperating for a very long time
with a consulting company,
which allowed me to get a variety of
experience in managing staff,
managing people,
how to manage, what is managerial work.
That's exactly what
we're going to talk about today.
If we talk about managers in general,
there are many categories of managers
who are engaged in various activities.
This is a marketing director,
this is a finance director,
this is, say, even a master of the site.
That is, you can talk about different levels,
you can talk about a top manager,
you can talk about a linear one,
the one at the bottom level.
But they are all managers, they are all managers.
What unites them?
This is what we will discuss today
in our course.
We will consider several approaches.
This is a functional approach
to the work of a manager,
this is a role approach to the work of a manager
according to Henry Mintzberg.
And, of course, what comes out
of all these approaches.
That is, these are competencies.
Why will you and I be evaluated?
By what criteria?
So that it is easier for us to navigate our work.
That is, competencies are how we achieve
our goals, how we work.
From the point of view of a functional approach,
managers, coordinating the activities
of their employees,
perform clearly several functions.
That is, this is how
our work can be structured
as managers.
Andriy Foyol
at the beginning of the 20th century
highlighted several more functions,
the most basic ones.
That is, this is planning,
this is organization,
this is control,
and this is motivation.
Or, as it is called in some sources,
this is leadership of the staff.
Now let's define
briefly what each of these functions means.
Planning function.
It is clear that if we have not
determined where we are going,
and we do not care at all,
then which way we will go.
We have no goal.
We go aimlessly.
We just chat.
We do not achieve any results.
But since the company exists
to achieve some goals,
someone must clearly define
both the goal itself
and the ways of its achievement.
So this someone
is the management staff.
That is, we are managers.
Accordingly, the planning function
includes the setting of goals,
the selection of strategies
and ways of its achievement,
as well as the making of plans
for integration and coordination
of different types of activities
and, accordingly, which employees
will perform these functions.
Planning is the determination
of the desired result
at a certain time in the future.
This is the setting of goals.
And we will now consider it in detail.
Determining intermediate actions
in the right order.
That is, what do we do first,
what do we do next,
what are our goals that we set
from the very beginning.
Determining another activity.
Each manager knows
that we have a lot of current work,
we are drowning in the routine,
and, accordingly,
when setting priorities,
we also need to include
the activity that should be planned
at the same time.
That is, planning is the tool
for achieving the goals of the company
both its own and its own.
And planning means thinking ahead.
The tasks of the planning process
are quite simple.
Determine and clarify the goals.
This will be the very first,
the most important,
the most basic
in the manager's activity.
Determine the limitations.
That is, what limits
we can fit into.
This is, accordingly, time, resources,
well, maybe something else.
Make a list of goals
that we need.
Specify the specific actions
or tasks that we must accomplish.
Arrange them in order
in which we must accomplish them
in order to achieve our goals.
Set individual,
both for yourself and for each employee,
group indicators of goal achievement.
Check the results
in accordance with the actions.
And whether we are doing
or not doing
the tasks that we need.
Whether we are doing
or not doing, whether we are deviating
or not.
This is the task of the planning process.
Now let's talk about setting goals.
It is clear that the importance
of setting goals is related to the fact
that they are, first of all,
the foundation, as I told you,
for the management process.
They determine ways to improve
the efficiency of the organization
and are, naturally,
at the heart of any business decision
or management decision.
And, naturally,
they serve as a guide
for setting specific plan indicators.
If we talk about the types of goals,
they can be divided into
economic and non-economic.
Economic goals can be
qualitative and quantitative.
Economic goals are expressed
in the indicators of economic activity.
For example,
it is the increase of the share
of the company's market
by 15% by the end of the year.
A qualitative goal is
the achievement of the company
of technological production in the industry,
which is also very important for the company.
Non-economic goals can be
set as, for example,
improving the working conditions.
These are goals
aimed at
improving the social conditions
of our employees
and for their comfortable work
and for them to achieve
the results we want
in such comfortable conditions.
Shareholders may be,
for example,
dissatisfied with the fact
that the organization increases
the costs of the re-equipment of the workshop
and the improvement of the working conditions.
But all these costs are justified
because people are the most important
factor in the success of the organization
and today it is one of the main
reasons why non-economic goals
should be set for the company.
In order to know
where to go,
there is one of the tools.
These are Smart goals.
Now we will see in detail what it is.
Smart is an abbreviation.
We will go through each letter.
The first letter is S.
Specific.
It means specific goals.
What does it mean?
It means that the result of the goal formulation
should be an answer
to the question
what needs to be done.
The goal should not contain words
that do not carry any
meaningful load.
For example,
optimal, worthy.
Because every person
or every employee
has their own criteria
for determining the optimal or worthy.
Therefore, these words
should not be used in the goal.
The goal should be formulated
in such a way that employees
cannot interpret this goal
individually.
The next letter is M.
Measurable.
It means
the presence of criteria
that will allow us to determine
the degree of the goal.
It is about
quantitative measurability.
We need to operate
with numbers.
If we are talking about a qualitative goal,
then a technical task
should be applied to the goal formulation.
It will describe in great detail
what we need to achieve,
how we will measure
that we have come here,
that we have already done it.
In practice, such criteria
are most often used.
Percentages or ratios.
For example, these are external standards.
Here, they can also be measured
in quantity.
If the level of the service is increased,
then the criteria will be
the presence of positive customer reviews
and a certain number
of these customer reviews.
Some average indicators.
For example, if the goal is
to maintain efficiency of work,
then, as a benchmark,
we use the standard of similar industries,
production,
let's say,
in the same area,
or standards of quality of other companies.
Time.
When you need to get a result
in a certain amount of time.
For example, in a year, in a quarter,
in a month, in five years, in a week.
We also set
time frames here.
Prohibitions.
This is a very specific criterion.
If we need to minimize,
for example, the percentage of marriage,
accordingly, as one of the criteria,
these are prohibitions.
Corporate standards.
If the company meets
specific standards
for the performance of work,
then the criteria will be the performance of standards.
Let's say, if we have
five of these standards,
then the performance of all five standards
is the performance of a standard document.
The next letter is
A.
Achievable.
To achieve the goals,
the manager should take into account
professional and personal qualities
of the subordinates.
At the same time,
the target bar should not be lowered
while keeping a rather tense rhythm of work.
There are several ways
to set this bar.
The first way
is to raise the bar.
The manager,
having raised the bar a little,
looks whether the employee is prepared
for higher requirements
or not.
If he is prepared,
then we move this bar even higher
when issuing the next task,
when setting the next goal.
This option is very suitable for beginners
who have just joined our company,
or employees who have just
faced the implementation of this task for the first time.
Here we first set
the test goal,
then we raise the bar,
raise and raise
so that the employee can grow
and gain confidence in his own strength.
The second option is to set
such a goal
that will require the employee
to increase the results of the work
that are still far from
his limited capabilities.
This is already suitable for experienced specialists
who do not seek to stand out
and do not look for novelty.
Thanks to this approach,
they will not feel oppressed
due to excessive requirements,
and at the same time they will be able to increase
their results.
The third option
will require a significant increase
in results and
get closer to the limited capabilities
of our employees.
It is suitable for initiative, experienced employees
who want to achieve more
and are ready to work
in a tight mode.
The fourth option is
an even higher bar,
which is suitable for very ambitious
employees who seek
to achieve high results
and they never stop
at the achieved one.
These employees will work with great pleasure.
But at the same time, we must take into account
the traps that we can fall into,
and, accordingly, we must watch our employees.
If you draw it in this format,
here is the level of difficulty
in setting the goal.
And if this is the level of the employee
at which he is,
that is, the level of his competence,
the level of his knowledge, his skills,
then, accordingly,
if we put the task
lower than he can
actually do,
accordingly,
a person begins to perform,
this work becomes routine for him.
He starts doing some things,
but he knows that he is capable of more.
He can do much more.
Accordingly,
how does this employee behave?
This zone can be called
the zone of petty filth.
Why petty filth?
Because a person is not interested in working.
He does the same thing,
so what?
He does not think about how he will perform this task.
He does not start to load himself
with some other tasks.
He does not take on more.
He is tired of it.
He does not follow the employees.
He starts to perform his work, let's say,
poorly.
Why petty filth?
He starts to be filthy, roughly speaking.
The next zone.
If we give the employee
a task
in accordance with his professional level,
that is, this is exactly where
our red line passes,
then this zone can be called the zone of pleasure.
The employee does not work for us.
He enjoys it.
And at the same time he achieves the goals
that we have set for him.
But what happens?
If he constantly performs
this work,
he has already learned
two or three times,
accordingly,
his competence remains here
and he goes to the zone of petty filth.
That is, work for him
becomes routine again.
And this must be taken into account
when performing tasks.
The next option
is when we give the employee
a task
as in the first case
I told you about.
That is, a gradual increase.
That is, we give the task
a little higher than his ability.
This zone is called the zone of pleasure.
What can be said about this zone?
This zone is very interesting.
That is, a person was given
a little more than he is capable of.
Accordingly, he understands
that he was entrusted.
He will be motivated.
He will be happy to do this job.
But when he did this task
once, twice,
he goes down
to the zone of pleasure.
While he is still satisfied,
he is motivated, he works with pleasure.
But then he can go down
to the zone of petty filth.
And this, again, we need to take into account.
One more point about the stretch zone.
If we constantly give a person
a task higher than his ability
and capabilities,
then he will constantly
work in a stretch zone.
And when we are in a stretch zone,
then, accordingly,
it is stress,
it is, again, dissatisfaction with the work.
And, accordingly,
a person can break down.
Therefore, here, according to the tasks
and goals that we set for our employee,
we also need to vary.
For example, we gave him a task
to go to the zone of pleasure.
Then we see that he has already learned it.
We give him a task again,
where he is in a stretch zone.
That is, we do not stretch him constantly,
but periodically.
Then our person will be very satisfied,
he will work with great pleasure
and be, let's say, more often in the zone of pleasure.
We also have the next zone.
This is the last one.
It is also called very interesting.
My house on the edge.
Initially, we set tasks for a person
that are much more than his abilities.
And what he can do and do.
And, accordingly, we do not give him
powers,
those that are necessary.
We do not give him resources.
The task becomes simply impossible.
What can our employee do?
He may not start performing this task at all.
That is, he will behave
like my house on the edge.
I am not interested in this.
I do not need this.
The person will not be satisfied,
the goal will not be achieved,
the task will not be completed.
And we need to take all these zones into account
when setting tasks and setting goals
for our employees.
Very often managers ask
how long can you hold an employee
in a particular zone.
Naturally, this is a purely individual question.
Because the degree of training
of employees is also completely different.
Here you need to show your talent
of penetration to the manager,
which he must also have.
Partly.
The next letter is R.
This is relevant.
It means that the goals must be agreed.
Sometimes they are also called significant.
The agreement of the goal
is determined by the answer to the question
whether it is important for the goals
of a higher level.
That is, how much the goal of my unit
or my own
is related to the goals,
that is, how relevant it is
to the goals of a higher level,
to our strategic goals of the company.
Accordingly,
having formulated the answer clearly,
the manager will be able to correctly
emphasize the goals
to his employees.
For example,
a person is instructed to make a report
with the sales statistics of the product.
If you do not explain
why this report is needed,
and this report is needed
to make a portrait of the consumer,
to analyze the dynamics of sales
or for something else,
but for all these three aspects
absolutely different data is needed
that will include this report.
Accordingly,
a person must be explained
why this report is needed,
when we set a goal for him.
Therefore,
when setting goals,
the manager must necessarily
establish its connection
to the goal of a higher level
and explain it to his employee.
The next letter is the letter T.
This is, of course, clear.
This is time-based,
that is,
goals tied to time.
What period,
what time we must reach
what we described above.
That is, a specific period.
Otherwise, we may have a risk
that this goal
is never possible to achieve.
For example,
to complete a task
within 30 days,
to achieve a sales volume
of $ 1 million by the end of 2007.
2007 will be
a time-based connection.
Advantages.
Advantages of setting goals in SMART format.
Advantages are
specificity, written,
it motivates.
A person understands what to do,
how to measure his results,
how it will be tracked.
Accordingly,
it is easier to achieve a large goal,
let's say,
to achieve a sales volume of $ 1 million
by the end of 2007.
Such a goal is easier to break
for the task.
Let's say, in the first quarter
it will be $ 250,000,
in the second $ 250,000,
in the third $ 254,000.
Again, it is easier to track the result.
But what are the restrictions here?
The goal is set on a chosen path.
It immediately drives us
into the framework.
We can't take a step to the left or to the right.
Everything is so clearly written
that in changing conditions,
and the external environment
changes very often,
very quickly, dynamically,
we can't go beyond the framework
of this goal.
And this goal is not suitable
for global and long-term tasks.
Let's say, a period of 5-10 years
is the period when we draw
or describe the vision of our company.
Accordingly,
the rules of setting goals,
if we summarize a little
the block on setting goals,
the goal should be specific,
the difficulty of tasks
in the range from medium to high,
in accordance with the level
of training of our employees,
the employee should perceive the goal,
he should take it upon himself,
and subordinates
through feedback
receive information about their progress,
that is, how they move,
whether they achieve it or not.
And the situation when an employee
participates in setting tasks,
when we ask him about it,
it is much more preferable
when an employee is appointed.
Because in this case,
the employee perceives it
as his own idea,
and his own action
is always closer to him.
Therefore, it is a great pleasure
to achieve, to perform
and to do something for them.
What mistakes are there
when setting goals?
And what should we take into account?
Ignoring the strategic goal.
For example,
in many companies,
the advantage is given
to tactical goals,
and strategic goals are often forgotten.
For example,
I will give an example of a tactical goal,
and then a strategic one.
In a tactical,
in a short range,
what can a goal look like?
It is to speed up the pace of growth of profit.
Although,
in fact, it is much more profitable
for a company,
much more strategic, let's say,
to increase the share of the market.
This will be a strategic goal.
To increase profitability.
This goal is more minor.
To improve the quality of products and services,
or to take care of the company's reputation.
This is already a strategic goal.
It is higher.
To increase the volume of money
received.
This is again a tactical goal.
And we should never forget
that we have strategic goals
and we should set them too.
Negative goal formulation.
This mistake
also happens very often
when we set a goal
for our department or for our employees.
It makes us
negative at once.
To correct mistakes.
And this is purely moral,
not very convenient and not very pleasant.
For example,
a negative goal formulation
will look like this.
To minimize the market
and to minimize the market.
And what will it sound like in a positive format?
The same goal.
The results of the achievement will be the same,
only the pleasure will be different.
In a positive sense,
it will look like to develop
and apply risk management procedures.
That is, you don't need to put a negative
right away in the goal formulation.
The next example.
To reduce the number of delays
for the work.
And if our employees
live very far from our company
and they are late
because of this,
then the goal can look like
to allocate transport
for the delivery of employees.
Of course, for a certain period of time.
To reduce the number of advertisements.
Again,
a negative formulation.
A positive one.
To improve the quality of the produced product.
Here, too,
it is necessary to combine
and formulate goals not in a negative format,
but in a positive one.
That is, in an achievable one.
So that people strive to achieve something.
A vague goal formulation.
We have already talked about this.
When we talked about specificity.
And very often
there are such formulations
as to increase efficiency,
to improve labor discipline,
to become a market leader.
On the one hand,
to become a market leader
sounds very positive.
But the question is
what is the point of being a leader?
Leaders can be different.
For example, you can be a leader
in delaying work.
Here it is necessary
not to blur, but to specify.
So that there is no double interpretation.
And when the goal is blurred,
goals look unattainable.
Officially stated goals
and the next mistake
when setting goals
do not correspond to reality.
For example,
the company can set
its goal of work as follows.
We must love our client.
And the boss of one of the departments
of this company
is not even going to react
to incoming advertisement.
Accordingly, here the officially stated goals
do not correspond to reality.
And the boss of the department
is talking about this goal.
He constantly says that we must love our client,
but at the same time he does not pay attention
to the advertisements
that come from the client.
So we have considered
one of the components
of the planning function
– goals.
Let's continue talking about planning.
What else do we need to understand
in order to build
this process correctly?
We need to understand that
there are three levels of management
in any company.
This is the so-called pyramid.
What is at the lowest level?
At the lowest level
we have employees,
managers, who are led
by simple specialists.
Accordingly,
the third level or the lowest level
of the pyramid is responsible
for operational planning.
These are the activities standards,
the description of work,
the description of possible
duties.
This is the description
of the system
in which each of the employees
knows exactly what to do,
how to do it, and at what time.
The second level or the middle level
of management is
tactical planning.
Here managers are led
not only by specialists,
but also by managers of the lower level.
Here we define
intermediate goals
in order to achieve higher strategic goals
and tasks.
Tactical planning is very similar
to strategic planning.
But where does strategic planning come from?
At the first level, of course.
This is the highest management,
where the company's mission is defined,
long-term goals,
what the company is based on,
what are the values,
how the organization will behave in its market niche.
The whole strategy
is at the top.
But how can we better
plan from the top down,
that is, from the definition
from the general to the private,
or from the private to the general?
The experience of working
with many companies
shows me that
when planning is done from the top,
that is, when we lower the goals
from the top, the strategy of achieving
these goals is lowered from the top,
then the lower levels do not work
very productively, because these goals,
as we said above,
are lowered from the top, they are not
borne by us, we did not give birth to them ourselves.
Therefore,
it is better to plan from the general,
that is, both from the top and from the bottom
at the same time.
So, if we talk about
the tasks of the planning process,
if we break them step by step,
then first
we define and clarify the goals,
strategic,
mission, vision,
you will consider this in great detail
in the course of strategic planning.
Then we define some restrictions,
time,
and the number of people
who will be involved in the process.
Then we define
some restrictions,
time, resources,
technological, human,
temporary resources.
Then we make a list of these resources,
a specific list.
Then we write down the actions,
that is, specifically what we will do
in order to achieve our strategic goals.
Then we put them in order,
what we do first,
what we do second,
and very closely link them.
What task can not be completed
and how will be completed another.
Accordingly, the next step
is to set individual
and group indicators of achievement.
And then check
the response to the results.
Everything is very simple.
Therefore, the biggest block,
the biggest and most responsible
function of the manager
is planning.
That is, not so,
let's act, let's do.
First you need to think,
put everything in place,
put all the points on the I,
and then act,
so that there are much fewer surprises.
What problems
managers often face
when performing
this function?
Setting unrealistic цели,
what we talked about,
because employees start to behave like a mayakha from the edge,
accordingly, the goals are not achieved.
This is inactivity.
We spent a lot of time
on the planning process,
we wrote everything down in great detail,
everything is so great and wonderful.
But at the same time, we calmed down,
everything, we worked,
we made a strategic plan,
so many points,
we did such work.
But then we do not work according to this plan,
that is, without activity.
And another very big problem
when performing this function
is the activity not related to the plan.
When we wrote down the plan,
we took all possible risks,
which could arise.
Accordingly, we do not do
what we wrote down in the plan,
but we do what is behind the plan,
beyond the framework.
That is, activity not related to the plan.
So, accordingly, we did
the planning process poorly.
This is also something we need to take into account.
Why don't our employees plan?
Or why don't linear managers plan?
This is the lack of an idea
about the desired future.
That is, people do not see
where they are going,
they do not see why,
they do not see the point of doing
the work that we are doing today.
And even more so,
it is still to plan.
This is fear of being under control
or punished.
If I write a plan to myself,
it means that it will be easier
to control me.
Accordingly, employees also have
such a fear.
What to do with this fear?
You just need to calm the person down,
that it will be easier for you to work
when it is according to the plan.
If we deviate from it,
then we will simply revise the plan,
we will correct it.
Then the employees will not be afraid of it.
Fear of losing influence.
This is a very common phenomenon in the company.
Why?
When I keep everything in my head,
I do not plan it,
I do not provide it to anyone,
I have all the information,
and it is all with me.
Accordingly, I am needed, I am necessary,
I am significant,
no one can do without me.
And this becomes very important for the employee.
If he transfers it all to a paper carrier
and provides something somewhere,
where is it, how to perform all the actions,
accordingly, the employee is afraid
to lose influence.
What to do with it?
Here, everything is simple.
The whole work of the manager
is done by the top manager,
who works with such an employee,
or by a manager who just works
with his employee.
Just talk,
calm the person down,
that we have everything here,
if you suddenly disappear,
then your work will not be in vain.
That is, again,
to raise the importance of this person,
because this is very important for him.
Perhaps this is weak rational thinking.
That is, a person sees this goal,
sees where to go,
but he does not know
how to rationalize this activity,
how to organize this whole process,
how to schedule it all
inside, according to the actions.
So, accordingly, how to work with this,
with this fear.
Here you just need to sit down
with your employee and say,
let me help you, let's see,
you are lost, let's see,
let's do this, then this, then this.
One, two, three.
When you tell him, help him,
help him systematize all this,
accordingly, the employee will not be afraid of it.
Well, such a banal thing,
such a banal thing,
like just laziness.
That is, a person is just too lazy to do this.
What do our employees start saying?
I have no time, I have so much work,
why would I waste my time?
Here you need to show
the importance of the planning process,
that is, how
rational we planned
it all, because we still
need to be effective,
we need to achieve our goals
and achieve this with less
losses and less costs.
Well, accordingly, here
make, set deadlines.
By this time you give me
a plan and we look further
together, how rational
it is all planned.
Perhaps an employee,
this is another reason why employees
do not plan, it is not an ability,
a person just does not know how to plan.
Again, what needs to be done?
He just needs to be taught.
Everything is pretty simple.
So, we set goals with you,
we planned everything in great detail,
we wrote down the resources,
accordingly, what the manager does next,
what he does.
And then,
this is one of the no less important
functions, this is organization,
that is, how to organize the process,
who will perform all these tasks,
how to group
our employees
so that the work
is built more effectively,
at what level will be made
certain decisions.
The organization function includes
or organizational activity
includes a social-psychological
aspect, that is,
it is the definition of the type of personality of the subordinates
and, accordingly,
the distribution of tasks taking into account
these types of personalities.
Why is this necessary? As we said above,
the employee
is in the zone of pleasure
when he knows how to do it.
He knows how to do it and he does it.
Accordingly,
here, taking into account what he knows,
what he is capable of,
and setting him such tasks,
or distributing the work in this way
and giving him this block,
this task will be performed better.
The second point is
the technological
component
of organizational activity.
Here is the division of the enterprise
or subdivision
horizontally, vertically,
into functional blocks,
that is, the grouping of labor.
How can we divide all our work
into such blocks,
so that it is performed better
and faster?
Grouping is the main means
of coordination of the activity
of our company.
But this very thing
sometimes causes problems
with coordination between units
and leads to isolation.
That is, here the information role of the manager is involved.
But now
let's talk about grouping.
The conditions of grouping
are the most important.
It is the commonness of resources,
as a rule,
which the organization
determines on its own.
There are two cardinal principles
of grouping.
These are functional and market.
That is, grouping occurs
on the basis of similar functional aspects
of activity
without being bound
to external factors.
This is a functional principle.
That is, what is inside the company
needs to be grouped.
For example, by knowledge and skills,
by working processes
and functions,
by the time of the task.
For example, the first shift, the second shift.
Here, too, groups are formed.
Examples of the main functions of the company
are sales and its stimulation, for example.
Purchasing and formation
of a product range.
Analysis and information
delivery.
This is the analytical department.
Production of products.
This is the production department.
Management of finances.
Transport department.
That is, we group similar functions
into separate departments.
Market principle.
In the market principle,
the grouping of labor occurs
on the basis of similar external or internal organizational aspects.
For example,
we have a product line
or a brand line.
Accordingly,
we group our company
and its branches by brands.
Market principle of grouping.
Here, grouping occurs
on the basis of similar external or internal
organizational aspects.
For example, by product.
For example,
juices,
dairy products,
drinks.
Here, grouping occurs in this way.
By clients.
Corporate clients,
physical persons,
VIP clients, those that are larger.
By geography.
Also, the market principle.
For example,
these are different regions of the Russian Federation.
Another organizational function
that is very important,
in my opinion,
is delegating powers.
Delegating powers
occurs both
on the basis of social-psychological aspects
of labor organization
and on the basis of technological.
That is, grouping.
What we were talking about.
What is it?
Delegation is the transfer of tasks,
powers to a person
who takes
responsibility for their performance.
Responsibility
is the obligation to perform
the task.
And authority,
that is, the terms
we will operate with,
is the limited right to use
the resources of the organization
and direct the efforts of employees
to perform the tasks.
Now we will consider the basic principles of delegating.
The first principle.
At the level of the organization
a possible volume or degree of delegating
powers
to managers must be determined.
That is, they need to be divided.
Delegated, undelegated.
Here,
especially in such key areas
as price determination,
assortment policy,
strategy development.
That is, it is necessary to determine
what we delegate, what we do not.
Moreover, for each level of management
we will have a list of undelegated powers.
For example, as we said,
the strategic decision-making area,
the determination of the company policy for the first level
will be an undelegated task.
The development of tactical decisions
will be a delegated task
that we can delegate
to our second level.
The next principle.
We have already talked about it in great detail.
It is necessary to clearly formulate the goals.
That is, the expected result
of the subordinate's activity
in absolutely every specific case.
If we delegate something to a person,
we set a goal for him.
The next principle.
Effective delegating
requires determining
the level of readiness and ability
of the subordinate to perform the task.
This is the so-called
situational management model.
For example, the level of readiness
of the subordinate is absolutely minimal.
That is, it is a beginner
in his activity.
Here the so-called
directive style of management
is applied,
or the task is delegated
as a directing.
The leader himself sets the goal,
gives detailed instructions,
controls the process of performance of the work.
That is, everything is as detailed as possible here.
If a person has already learned something,
has reached a certain level of competence,
then we are already training.
That is, the goals are formulated
together with the subordinate.
You can ask him,
what do you think?
The leader offers
options and solutions
and consults with his employee.
What do you think?
I think to do it like this.
That is, the leader prompts
an independent assessment
of both his work
and the upcoming work,
and the following is
seconding,
or
encouraging style of management.
That is, the leader
presents the employee with the opportunity
to formulate the goal on his own,
the method of its achievement,
only sometimes supporting it if necessary,
not directing it.
And when we fully delegate
as leaders,
the subordinate has absolutely all the powers
to achieve the goal and bears full responsibility for it.
That is,
he was given a certain section
and he himself
independently makes all decisions.
The next principle of delegation
is the transfer of authority
must be carried out
along the vertical line of management.
It happens very often
in the company
that one employee
or one manager
approaches another and says,
our leader Ivan Ivanovich said
that you should do this, this, this.
And then
the same Petya Vasichkin,
who must fulfill this task,
becomes absolutely unclear
who authorized him,
who he bears this responsibility to.
Therefore, here the vertical line
must be observed.
If I start delegating
or I have a need
to delegate a task
to an employee of another unit,
then I must do it
through the leader of this unit.
The next principle
is the scale of tasks or the volume of responsibility
must correspond
to the volume of delegated powers
or resources,
as we said.
For example,
let's say,
an employee is given $100
and they say,
you must organize an event
that will be on a large scale
throughout Russia.
Let's assume,
a very exaggerated example.
That is, the scale of tasks
or the volume of responsibility
must correspond to the resources
that are provided for this.
Also, when delegating powers,
we must take into account the norm of governance.
What is the norm of governance?
It is the number of people
subordinate to one leader.
That is, who I manage,
how many people I can have subordinate,
or the number of interactions
that one leader controls.
The norm of governance
decreases when we need
strict direct control.
That is, if I need to control
seven people,
not together, but separately,
I will spend a lot of time.
And I will probably
not have enough time
for my main tasks.
So, I should have
not seven people, but less.
The norm of governance decreases.
Or I have 10 newbies
in subordination.
I can't manage them at the same time.
Therefore,
the norm of governance decreases.
When we have...
The norm of governance decreases
when we need
mutual consent.
That is, I can't work
directly with an employee.
I can't contact him a lot,
or with many employees.
He is somewhere far from me.
Accordingly, I can't manage
a large number of employees
or a large number of tasks.
The manager has
additional non-managerial tasks.
That is, if a person
carries some social load,
then, again,
the norm of governance decreases.
He either works,
or he does some social things.
Non-managerial,
not those that relate
directly to the fulfillment of his duties.
Accordingly, the norm of governance
increases when
all processes are standardized.
Everything is written down.
We have clear instructions.
I can manage more people
than, say, 7 or 10.
I can manage 50,
maybe 100 people.
This is a similarity of the tasks
being fulfilled.
That is, our employee
does the same tasks.
I don't need to control him anymore.
He is already a professional in this.
Accordingly, if I have many such employees,
then the norm of governance
increases.
When I have many employees
who have a need
for independence and self-fulfillment,
they know
how to do it, what to do.
There are some points of control.
I have many such employees.
They know
what to do.
The norm of governance increases.
Another principle of delegation
is that the authority is delegated
to the position, not to the individual.
Many companies
also face this problem.
When we have a person
who is very charismatic,
very bright,
and we need to hold
some event.
We immediately think
about him.
Masha Ivanova does it very well.
But she is not
assigned to this.
We think,
how would she do it well?
A person starts to do
not the activity
that leads to the goal of the company.
The company loses something.
The authority should be delegated
not to the individual,
not to Masha Ivanova,
but to the position.
We should have a cult, a mass,
a founder who will organize
all such events.
We will gain it in accordance
with the requirements of the position
that we will write.
The next principle of delegation
is the responsibility
The responsibility without authority
cannot be delegated.
I will do it all,
I will make decisions,
I will have all the resources,
and you will be responsible
for all this.
This should not be in the company
when delegating.
The authorities should be
accepted by the subordinates.
The employee to whom we delegate
some responsible task
should agree
that he will do it.
Yes, I can do it.
This principle says about it.
Another very important principle
is the constant control
of the implementation
of the subordinate delegated function.
The control points should be defined.
What should be these points?
How to control?
We will talk about it
a little later.
Why do the managers
not want to delegate?
Very often we come across
such an opinion or a mistake.
I will do it better,
faster, easier.
Accordingly, I start to get
into routine tasks,
and my strategic goals
or the purpose of my position
start to suffer.
This is one of the mistakes.
The next desire is
the lack of ability to lead.
It is effective
and clear to set tasks to subordinates.
I need to grow up here,
to develop myself.
This is the zone of my growth.
The lack of trust to subordinates.
I do not trust them.
I will constantly check them.
I delegate this task to them,
and then I will check it 30 times.
Either they will not cope,
they will not be able to do it.
First, it demotivates
our employees.
Secondly, we overwhelm ourselves
with routine and do not fulfill
our tasks.
We become ineffective.
Fear of risk.
What if our subordinates
will not cope with the time
allocated for this task?
Accordingly, I am afraid.
I do not delegate this task.
Again, I do it on my own.
In order not to be afraid
that the task will fail,
there is a very good way out.
We set deadlines
with a little margin
in order to help our subordinates
or to do it on our own
if they fail.
The lack of choice control
is also one of the misconceptions.
The managers do not control
the execution of the task
when it is still in process.
There is such a desire,
such a mistake among managers.
Why do I do this?
I do not want to do it.
I do not want to be a burden
on my subordinates.
Why do our employees
not want to take
the authority?
Why do they not want to make decisions
or to perform tasks?
A subordinate may refuse
responsibility.
I know it,
but I am afraid to answer for it.
Again, we need our support here.
A subordinate is afraid of criticism
for a mistake.
A person is afraid
that he will be punished
for his mistake.
We will talk about it later.
How to give feedback
to your employees?
A subordinate does not have
the necessary information
and resources for successful
task execution.
You can take this information
here, in this database.
You can take Tatiana for this,
you can take Oksana for this,
for your help.
A subordinate does not have
self-confidence.
It may be absent for the reasons
we have mentioned above.
A subordinate does not have positive
incentives to take additional responsibility.
It means that
the company does not have enough motivation
or the motivation scheme is not well-developed.
We understand what we need to do.
We need to see
how our subordinates are motivated.
Here we are
moving to
a very important
manager function.
It is motivation.
What is it?
Motivation
is a function of management.
It is a process of creating
an inner motivation
for actions
in our organization
so that a person
wants to do something.
It is related to delegated
powers, delegated
responsibility and
coordinated with a plan.
An external motivation is
a motivation that is not related to
the content of a certain activity,
but it is determined
by some circumstances
in relation to the subject.
An internal motivation
is not related to
any external influence.
It is a person himself
who wants to do something.
As a rule, an internal motivation is closely related
to the content of an activity.
According to Hackman,
there are three conditions
for creating an internal motivation.
It is what all managers
talk about.
Where is the button
for a person to do his job
with his eyes burning?
First, the performer should know
the result of his work.
Second,
he should feel responsibility
for the level of the work done,
for the quality of the work.
He should feel personal
responsibility for the result
he achieves.
Third,
the performer should perceive
his work as important
or necessary.
He should understand that the result of his work
affects the life
and work of other people.
It makes our employees
more important.
The motivation
of the work
is measured
by the following five characteristics.
They are the variety of the work,
the completion,
the significance,
the autonomy and the feedback.
The first three
are the variety, the completion
and the significance.
They determine the importance of the work.
The next one is the sense of responsibility
and the knowledge of the result.
Let's take a closer look
at the characteristics
of the work.
The variety of the work is the degree
of the work that requires a variety of actions.
What is it for?
It is for our employee
not to fall into the zone
of small filth that we have mentioned.
A person has talents,
he has abilities,
and we load him
with some very
routine work.
That's why this factor is very important.
The degree of the work
is the degree of the work that requires
and allows the completion
of a whole, clearly
distinguishable cycle of actions.
There should be some points.
A person should see his result.
This is what the degree of the work
is all about.
The significance of the work
is the degree of the work
that affects the life
of other people.
Our employee should understand this.
The autonomy in the work
is the degree
of the work that provides
freedom and independence.
The autonomy in making decisions
and choosing the actions
that we will perform.
The feedback from the work
is the degree
of the work
that we will perform.
The employee gets feedback
from the supervisor
on how he achieves his results.
Does he achieve them or not?
How well the work was done?
How poorly?
And what is very important
is that during the work
there should be those
rapper points where a person feels
that he is going in the right direction
or not.
How to use this tool?
We take the formula
MPB
Motivational Potential Point.
Each of the indicators
is measured
on a scale
from 1 to 5.
I want to say
that it is impossible to standardize
this process.
It is a help to the supervisor
in motivating his employees.
He can measure
how motivated each of my employees is
and whether I can raise
this level.
Each of the indicators is measured
on a scale from 1 to 5.
We take our employees
Tatiana, Oksana,
Petya and calculate
the MPB for each of them.
How varied
Tatiana's work is?
How much is it completed?
Does she see these results?
Are these points set?
How much does she feel
the importance of her work?
How much is she
autonomous in making decisions?
Do I give her feedback?
Does she receive it?
Do I pay attention
to my employee?
How well or badly he works?
Do I tell him about it?
The task is for you.
You will calculate
the MPB for each of your employees
and see how it can be raised.
It is clear that the maximum rating here is 125.
That is, everywhere the rating is 5,
and it turns out 125.
When you calculate for each of your employees,
sometimes such results come out
that 7 points,
8 points,
6 points.
And the most interesting thing is
that there is no need
for any financial investments.
That is, we increase the motivation
of our employees just by saying a word,
just by changing their attitude,
just by paying attention to them.
Accordingly, people will start
working more effectively,
and again, we will achieve our goals.
Another thing I would like to say
in terms of motivation is that
each employee, different employees,
let's say, have different types of motivation.
That is, people are motivated
by different things.
One of the types
is instrumental type.
What is it?
These are people who are very
influenced by external stimuli.
That is, they need to be constantly
fed from the outside.
Roughly speaking,
not in vain we have a picture
on the slide of money.
This is a bonus,
this is some social benefits,
or a social program,
this is an increase in social benefits,
this is some possible trips,
this is participation in some
giving out of subscribers,
perhaps.
That is, these are the things
that we can measure, give.
That is, we can give that person
physically, somewhere he can joke,
feel, can go somewhere,
enjoy.
This is an instrumental type.
What will such people talk about?
That is, how can we identify it?
These people will,
as a rule,
ask
when setting the task,
what will we get for it?
Will we get an additional bonus?
What will I get for it?
All conversations will go
around this.
They will not be interested in the content of the work.
What do I need to do for this?
They have the first question, what will I get for it?
The next type of motivation
is a professional type.
These are very interesting
people, of course.
These are people who are motivated
by the work itself.
The very content.
People like to grow.
People like to grow professionally.
They need less
some external stimuli.
They just need to be given
more work
where they can develop themselves.
That is, to expand their circle
of duties. They did
one job, then they did another.
Accordingly, they expand.
They grow.
This is a professional type.
What are these people motivated by?
They like mentorship.
They like to learn, they like to share
their experience, they like to learn
something new, they like to dig
and improve their
process of work.
People are usually directed
to the process.
The next type of motivation is patriotic.
These are people who are more
directed to the team,
to achieve some high ambitious
goals.
We are here, we are
involved in such results.
It's like with flags.
Forward!
Forward, you give communism!
Mission, vision, the leadership
came down to us, wow!
They are already very pleased.
These are people who can ask for advice
and they will always give it too.
With great pleasure.
They will be very motivated.
These are the awards,
the honours,
all that people with a patriotic
type like.
The next type of motivation,
you can't even call it a type of motivation
because these people,
let's say, don't really motivate.
They are Lumpenized.
Do you remember
the expression Proletariat Lumpen?
Accordingly, these people,
I am the same as everyone else,
so that everyone has everything equal,
everyone is the same,
I don't want to do more work
than everyone else.
If I am given a task,
why me, why not Vasya,
Petya or Fedya?
These are people who
don't like to show off
and also don't like to be equal.
Everyone is the same, everyone is equal.
This is the type of people.
Unfortunately,
there are a lot of them.
In my opinion, these people can still
be moved somewhere,
you can shake them somewhere
and transfer them to something else,
that is, to feel the button.
But again, these are conversations,
these are manifestations of needs.
Accordingly, then we will understand
what to do with this person.
In life, there is no
pure economic,
pure patriotic type of motivation,
pure professional,
and so on.
Naturally, these types will be mixed.
I think that one person
will be clearly expressed.
Let's assume that a person is very
instrumentally motivated,
he must pay for something,
but at the same time he is still
interested in something,
that is, at least he is interested.
The same is true of the host or the patriotic.
The host and the patriotic
very often happen together.
That is, it is a joint achievement of goals.
I am involved in such a big,
necessary, important,
but at the same time
I don't need to be touched.
I do it all on my own.
Now we have planned,
organized this process,
we motivate our employees
constantly,
but we also promised to talk
about such an important function
as control.
We don't like it very often,
but we can't do without it.
Control is a process of
ensuring the achievement of the organization
of its goals.
Why do we need it?
We need it to find out
whether we have achieved these goals
or not,
to stimulate
successful activity.
And another important thing is
to detect problems earlier
than they become too serious,
so that we can take
some corrective actions.
What is the subject of control?
What is it aimed at?
What do we control in our company
or in our unit?
First, compliance
with any standards.
For example, quality standards.
The criteria for quality
are clearly specified.
Accordingly, we meet this standard.
The quality of the product,
the quality of the communication.
The next subject of control,
what is it aimed at,
is execution,
that is, how we do something.
If we have an activity in our company
that requires
a strictly defined sequence,
accordingly,
this thing must be controlled.
The subject of control
will be the process.
First, we do the first task,
then the third and the fourth.
The most common type of control
is achievement.
That is, the control of the results.
Achieved, not achieved.
And, accordingly, how it was achieved.
Three main types of control
are specified
by place and time in the process of activity.
That is, at what time we will
perform the same control.
Very often managers forget
about preliminary control.
What is it?
We are just about to start
performing the action,
we need to check if we have all the resources,
if all the people are informed,
if everyone knows what they should do,
if everyone understands what needs to be done
and how to achieve the goal.
Therefore, preliminary control is also very important,
otherwise we may go in the wrong direction.
The next type of control
is current control.
This is already here,
in the process of activity,
at the very point.
How often we will set them up,
we will talk to you now.
And the final control is usually based on the result,
when the activity is completed,
we sat down, talked, looked,
achieved, not achieved, how much achieved.
Current control
is the so-called feedback.
Winter, Blanchard and Johnson
have developed a feedback technology
that they called
one-minute management.
It consists of three parts.
Setting goals,
we have already discussed it,
praise of one minute
and criticism of one minute.
What is it?
Praise of one minute.
Employees should
at the end of each week
or at the end of each day
provide detailed reports
on the work done, successes, difficulties,
what is the most important
or not least important,
goals.
For employees, it is another way
to analyze the situation.
For us, it is to increase the employee base,
including the person
has the opportunity to see
the results of their work
at a certain time.
And for the manager,
it is feedback with employees.
In this case, it should serve as a praise tool,
not a indication of a shortcoming.
What is it for?
It is not done to punish everyone
if something goes wrong,
but to find out why it is wrong
and to correct their actions.
And, accordingly, to praise
their employees.
The correct praise also has its secrets.
First,
you need to praise your employee
right after you noticed
the positive in his work.
That is,
he did something wrong,
and here, perhaps, he had some improvement,
some breakthrough.
We noticed it, we praised him right away.
We will not wait for a month,
two weeks.
We praise him right here.
Why?
Because the person immediately
gets in the mood, he starts working
with more enthusiasm.
Accordingly, we are good, he is good too.
At the same time,
it should be said that it was he who did well.
You do not need to flatter a person.
What you noticed,
what you saw in the process of improving his work,
you tell him.
Prove by specific examples
that his successful work
benefits the whole company.
What do we do with this?
We raise the importance
of our employee,
we encourage our employee
to continue in the same spirit.
Well done, Petya, go ahead,
let's go on in the same spirit,
we will reach great heights.
Find such words
that he felt this support.
And this is also very important.
The excuse of one minute.
Our managers did a great job
in this.
Let's see how to do it better
or how to do it right.
If an employee
deviates from the planned path
during work, the manager
should intervene and make a comment.
Let's see what the rules are.
React to the mistake of the subordinate
right away,
as soon as it is noticed.
Make a comment
in private.
If you noticed a mistake
and there are many employees around,
do not say this to everyone.
It is better to take the employee out.
A person can have
a high self-esteem,
and here he can be so demotivated
that he will ruin
all the remaining work.
Therefore, it is better to do it in private.
At the same time,
do not remind the person
that he always does it badly.
You did it wrong last time,
this time,
and here too.
Once and that's all.
Give the employee the opportunity
to explain during the conversation.
If the task is not completed,
if the plan is not achieved,
then you need to listen to him
and find out the reasons
why it was not done.
Perhaps he did not have enough skills,
perhaps he did not have enough resources,
perhaps he was let down by other employees
who were tied to his job.
This must be clarified.
First, we need it to achieve our goals.
Secondly,
the employee will be pleased
with our attention.
Make a comment or a reproach
only if we have checked all the facts.
If a person is not to blame,
if he is tied to another job
and he did not complete his task,
then he does not need to make a reproach.
He needs to make a verbal remark
and say that
if other employees are letting you down,
you know that we are also
holding you back,
tell me about it earlier.
How do we make a correct reproach?
The correct reproach consists of two stages.
At the first stage,
we inform the employee
what he did wrong.
Specifically.
We clearly let him understand
what I personally think about this.
Then we pause
so that the employee takes the information
and digests it.
At the second stage,
we remind the employee
that we appreciate him very much.
We can even tell him why.
Then we let him understand
that the reproach is over
and we do not return to this issue.
By following the rules of praise
and reproach,
the manager supports
the constructive behavior
of his employees
and motivates them
to make creative decisions
on the tasks they are faced with.
We have talked about
the control function.
Let's see
what other stages of control
exist.
What do we have to do in this function?
First,
we develop standards, criteria,
and indicators.
Before controlling,
we need to understand what we will control.
The second stage of control
is the comparison
of real results
with the standards.
We constantly compare
indicators and standards
to see what we get.
The third stage is
the adoption of necessary corrections.
This is what the manager
is faced with very often.
To sum up,
what is the role
of a manager?
It is a combination of actions
aimed at changing
or supporting the behavior
of other people,
employees, subordinates,
to achieve the desired results
through their efforts.
Through other people's efforts.
We have seen
the functional approach.
These are the four basic functions
that were highlighted by
Henri Fayol in the early 90s.
There is another approach,
which is the role-based approach.
There is a great researcher,
a manager,
whose name is
Henry Mintzberg.
He found it interesting.
The functional approach is good,
but what do managers do in the end?
He started
his research.
First, he came to one manager,
then to another.
He asked,
how can their activities be structured?
As a result of his research,
he saw
that managers
sit, think,
talk,
constantly go somewhere,
talk on the phone,
write letters,
look for information,
participate in exhibitions,
presentations.
The work is
somewhat chaotic.
From all the manager's activities,
Mintzberg
highlighted
10 roles and divided them
into three major classes.
These are interpersonal roles,
what the manager has to do
every day.
He interacts with everyone.
These are information roles,
decision-making roles.
All three classes
are interdependent,
connected to each other,
and, again,
the manager's functional activity.
This is
what gives the content
of the work,
no matter the nature of the organization
or the position of the manager.
This is a lower position
or a higher position.
No matter what position he holds,
he is a financier, a marketer,
a producer.
Interpersonal roles.
The head, the manager.
There are three roles in this block.
Very often, the manager
has to represent himself,
represent his unit.
This is a symbolic head,
whose duties include
legal aspects,
social aspects,
ceremonies, actions,
which are related to the position,
to his functional position.
I, as a manager, as a head,
represent my unit,
my company.
I have to look
like a status person.
I have to speak
on behalf of
my organization
or my unit.
The next interpersonal role
is the leader.
There is a lot to talk about
the leader.
We will continue to talk about it.
You will see in one of the courses
in detail who is a leader
and what he should be like.
He is a person
responsible for motivation.
The manager is responsible
for the motivation of his employees,
for the activation of his subordinates
so that people work
with pleasure and the actions
achieved their goals.
The next role is
a link.
The manager always
links someone.
He provides work
to his entire unit.
He links his employees.
He knows what one person does,
what the other one does,
so he is a link
that owns the whole picture.
The next block
is the information role.
Here the manager starts to act
as an observer.
He is a person
who observes his employees.
who receives information
from them.
He is a person who
receives a variety of information
from specialized sources.
He uses it
in the interests of the case,
processing mail,
contacting,
participating in conferences
where we receive a lot of information.
The next role is
a guide or a distributor
of information.
I received it,
so I have to broadcast it
to my employees
so that they benefit from it.
I pass this information
to my employees
from external sources
or from other subordinates.
We pass the information
to external users.
We act as an orator.
We motivate our employees.
We pass the information to them.
Why is it an information role?
An information orator.
We have to pass the information
to our employees
in such an interesting way
that they want to do something.
Or we have to pass the information
to our leadership
in such a way
that they listen to us.
It is an information role.
An orator.
The next role
is related to decision-making.
An entrepreneur.
What does an entrepreneur do?
An entrepreneur
usually
looks for opportunities.
We usually lack resources.
Temporary,
human, material.
Accordingly, a manager
starts to play this role.
Where to find something?
How to minimize it?
He acts as an entrepreneur.
He often plays this role.
The next role is a firefighter
or a violation-eliminator.
It is clear that not everything in our company
or in our department
is smooth.
Of course,
we have to put out some fires.
There was a conflict
either because of resources
or because of misunderstanding.
Maybe something is missing.
Maybe something...
We act as firefighters.
We correct actions
when our company
or our department
or employees
refuse to make important decisions.
The next role
is a negotiator
or a negotiator.
Of course,
you have to negotiate
in order to
promote some ideas
that we have.
Or you have to negotiate
with your employees
to make them fulfill
their tasks.
We often have to negotiate
when we work
outside.
We work with our external customers
and stakeholders.
We work with people
who are interested in us
and we negotiate all the time.
We sell some idea,
we sell ourselves,
we sell our company.
In a good way.
The next role is a resource distributor.
A manager
is responsible
for having
enough resources.
It is a distribution
of financial resources,
labor resources,
and, again,
the amount of money.
So,
what do managers pay for?
They pay for
making decisions.
The most important thing.
I made a decision.
At the stage when we set goals,
we need to have a certain courage
to set a goal.
It is either ambitious or not.
At the stage
of planning,
we make decisions again.
At the stage of motivation,
we make decisions all the time.
When we control, organize,
motivate, plan,
the manager makes decisions all the time.
To do or not to do.
To refuse or to continue
doing it.
What are the approaches to making decisions
if we talk about it briefly?
There are intuitive decisions.
A choice is made
only based on feelings.
I feel that it is right.
I feel it.
According to the research
in Russia,
most managers
make decisions like this.
Intuitively.
I feel, I think, I know.
I don't even know, I just feel.
Decisions are based on judgments.
It is not about
someone's judgment,
but maybe my own experience.
I have already done it this way.
I have worked once, twice.
So, I can do or do
the same here.
The next type of decision
or the next approach to making decisions
is still a rational decision.
A choice is made by an objective
analytical process.
It is very difficult to say
which of these approaches
is the most correct.
It depends on the situation.
Sometimes a rational decision
if we approach it rationally
can take so long
that it will not be effective
or it will be unnecessary.
If we make decisions
intuitively,
without knowing the facts,
we can make mistakes.
So, decisions should be
made rationally,
but based on our intuition.
When making decisions,
it is very important
not only to set priorities,
what to do first,
but also not only
logical analysis,
but also courage.
Every manager
always faces two types of compromises
when making decisions.
They are completely opposite
in meaning.
The first compromise is
that half a loaf of bread is better than its absence.
What does it mean?
Let's say we have a product
in our warehouse
and it is not for sale
at the price we set.
It is easier for us
to lower the price,
to get at least something,
because money and finances
should work.
And it is more profitable
to invest this money in something else.
So, half a loaf of bread
is better than its absence.
The second compromise is
that half a loaf of bread
is better than its absence.
In the first case,
we have at least something,
but in the second one
it is half a loaf of bread
is worse than its absence.
So, we agree in the first case,
but in the second one
we completely deny it.
We do not start doing something,
we do not take any steps.
For example,
let's say,
we are in the CIS market,
in the republic of our former union.
If we do not have enough funds,
we will not be able to cover
the entire amount of work.
In this case,
we will be denied.
It is one of the compromises.
We will not leave
the market
if we do not have enough money
to continue our activity.
What is also very important
in making decisions
is to remember the Pareto principle.
80% of the information
we get from 20% of the sources
that are necessary for our work.
Accordingly,
when we play the role of an information manager,
we also need to look
whether this source is useful
or not.
Because 80% of the sources
will be useless information.
Therefore,
when we make priorities,
whether to go to a conference
or not,
whether to receive this information or not,
we need to think about it.
80% of the decisions
are made in 20% of the time
that you spent on meetings
and planning.
The same is true here.
Here you just need to optimize
the time of the meetings.
Accordingly,
only the most important decisions
will be reflected.
20% of your working time
is provided by
80% of our production work.
In fact,
20% of our working time
is made by
80% of our work,
which brings us results.
So, we have seen
what a manager should do.
Now the question is
what he should be like,
what he should know,
and how he should do it.
What should he devote more time to?
What parameters,
what criteria
should be used
to assess the work of a manager?
What should be the main criteria
for a manager?
Let's look at
the pyramid of development
of managerial skills.
The main skill
of a manager
is the following.
It is functions,
planning,
organization,
control, motivation
and all the rules
that we have seen today.
It is effective operative leadership,
that is,
how to manage
your employees in a situational way,
how to make them
do their job with pleasure,
how to lead them.
It is team management.
There are certain
rules here,
how to manage a team,
how it is built,
how it develops over time,
and what role I, as a manager,
should take.
It is setting
your own goals,
honing your own
values,
and managing
time through it.
Planning your time
and distributing it in the right way.
What I do today
will lead me to my tomorrow.
It is effective business
communication.
It is a very important
part of a manager's job.
How to talk to me better,
how to talk to one person,
how to talk to another,
how to communicate
at my level,
with a higher level.
The next block is
operative management skills.
It includes
guidance and daily supervision,
that is, daily control.
How will we
control our employees,
how will we train them,
how will they learn,
how will we track it.
It is also a very big block
of skills that we should have.
It is a meeting management.
Meetings are held
every day,
if necessary,
when solving or analyzing
problems, when we need to
develop a solution.
It is a strategic meeting,
which is held
every day.
How to spend
your precious time on it.
How to spend less time on it,
how to make it more effective.
The next block is project management.
It is also a leader's skill.
We often have projects
in our company,
that is, we need to solve a problem.
We have managers,
specialists,
a certain project group.
We, as managers, need to know
how to manage it.
We need to know the life cycle of the project,
how the team functions.
Here, a whole block
of skills that we should
master is being established.
The next block of skills
is organization management skills.
What should we know
and know here?
How to manage the internal and external
environment of the organization?
What laws are in effect here?
What is happening outside?
How to analyze it and apply it
in practice,
in the life situation of our organization?
It is business processes management.
How to build
a structure in our company
in terms of processes, functionality,
how to manage all these things.
It is motivational programs,
which will affect the whole organization,
the whole company,
and what role we will play in it.
The next block is organizational development skills.
The external environment is changing,
and, accordingly,
our company, our organization is changing.
How to group our company better?
How to plan better?
How to go through this process better?
It is strategic planning.
It is marketing planning.
What will we sell on the market?
Is it necessary for the market?
At what price will we do it?
Where?
Where are the distribution points
of our products?
It is also necessary to know and to know.
The next block is strategic leadership.
What role
or what place
our company will take
on the market?
It is strategic leadership.
Will we strive for it?
Or will we take
our market niche
and try to
lead here?
Or will we be a global corporation,
which will cover the whole world?
The management of organizational culture
or so-called corporate culture
also has its own
certain laws,
certain
certain trends,
which we need to take into account,
so that the organizational or corporate culture,
as it is also called,
works for us,
not against us.
And, as I said,
our company will definitely change,
because everything around is changing.
And, accordingly,
something needs to be changed inside the company.
Accordingly, we must
know how these processes
are going on inside,
what the resistance will be like,
how to better build the stages
of changes inside the company.
And here, of course,
organizational change skills are included,
where we will need those roles
that we also talked about above.
These are the roles
of decision-making,
information roles,
we must know everything,
because who owns the information,
owns the world.
These are also interpersonal roles,
because when organizing
organizational changes in the company,
we need to communicate a lot
with our employees.
How will they evaluate our work?
What competencies,
in our opinion,
are the main and important
in the work of a manager?
One of the competencies
is business vision.
What is evaluated here?
Or how is the manager evaluated
according to the competencies
that are called business vision?
Here the understanding of the business
as a whole is evaluated,
and the individual processes in particular.
That is, how much does the manager
understand how the whole company works
and what is the role of his department
in this process?
How much does he know how to highlight
the main and secondary things
and give his best resources
and best time
to the main things.
Think globally, but act locally.
And now
there is even
such a term,
that is, act locally.
We think globally
within the entire company,
and we act locally here and now.
The managers of this category,
who have business vision
developed at a high level,
think at the level of the company,
analyze the situation
in the market,
propose proposals
that correct some strategic
or tactical goals of the company,
which increase
the competitive advantages of the company,
which take into account
the strategic vision
of our company as a whole,
which correctly set priorities
and accents within their work.
This is the competence.
The next competence
I would like to talk about
is resource optimization.
What is evaluated here?
The ability to
rationally use various resources is evaluated here,
which we also briefly talked about.
That is, financial,
human, technical and temporary.
How to evaluate this competence?
How to find out
that the manager owns it,
that he has it,
that he is competent in this matter?
The proposed initiatives lead
to increase in profit or
to achieve planned indicators
when the budget is saved.
There are no financial failures,
there is no budget overspending.
This can be proposed
as a criterion for evaluating this competence.
The proposed initiatives
of the manager allow to achieve
planned results with a smaller number of employees.
We are already talking
about human resources.
The department employs employees of the required qualification.
There is no inflating of the staff,
there are no extra people who do not know
what to do at work.
Employees work to achieve
the result in accordance
with their qualification.
If we talk about
optimization of technical resources,
what is evaluated here?
The proposed initiatives
allow to achieve
planned results with
a smaller number of equipment
or
to use the equipment
that we have.
The service life of the equipment is optimal,
it does not fail
earlier due to improper
operation.
The time resources
are also
similar
or correspond
to the above.
The proposed initiatives of the manager
allow to achieve planned results
with the same costs but for a shorter time.
The manager
can allocate
his time resource
and does not waste time
on unnecessary work.
The next competence
that we have talked about in detail
is delegation.
What is evaluated here?
The evaluation of the task set,
how well
the employees perform their work.
That is why
managers can be judged.
If your employees do not perform
tasks or fail the plan,
first of all,
ask yourself
whether I set the task correctly
and whether I allocate
the necessary time resources.
I tell them
where to take it and what to take.
If the employees do not do something,
it is only the manager's fault.
What else is evaluated here?
The delegation itself.
The manager does all the work
himself or his employees
do some tasks.
The organization of the work process
in the organization.
How much
people
work autonomously
in the manager's case.
How much they work without the intervention
of their supervisor.
All processes are so well-organized
that the supervisor's
intervention is minimal.
He does more important tasks.
He deals with strategic plans.
What else did we talk about?
The decision-making.
What is evaluated here?
How to evaluate this competence?
The ability to make responsible decisions
is evaluated,
taking into account various initiatives.
The manager makes decisions
not only intuitively,
but also considers
alternative options.
He shows it.
The decisions are always
different in depth and accuracy.
The search for additional information
is always carried out.
The results of the decisions
bring a positive effect
not only at the level of the department,
but also at the level of the whole company.
The organization of the team work.
This is also one of the very important
competencies of the manager.
What is evaluated here?
The ability to create and support
team work in the department.
The atmosphere of team work.
So that every employee
does not feel that he works
separately for himself.
We work together for a common goal.
The supervisor is
a fan of team work.
He not only
demonstrates the highest level
of organization of work in his department,
but also considers the whole company
as a team of like-minded people,
helping other managers
to establish team work
in their departments.
The work is organized very effectively.
Everyone works in harmony.
There are no conflicts.
Or these conflicts
have a constructive nature.
There are no negative outbursts.
Naturally, all employees
help each other,
give advice,
and motivate each other
to achieve common goals.
The next competency
that directly flows out
of the function of the manager
is motivation.
What managers do not like
to do for some reason?
Because there is simply no time.
This is listening,
involving employees in decision-making,
informing,
feedback,
encouraging, punishment.
That is, how much the manager
can implement the motivating guidance.
The situation in the department
contributes to the fact
that employees come out
with proposals to improve their activities.
The manager pays attention
not only to the production,
but also to the personal situation of employees.
But here you do not need
to be very involved in this,
otherwise you can become
a vest in which employees
will come and cry all the time.
Everything should be in moderation.
When assessing this competency,
the manager
always tries to organize
joint decision-making procedures.
That is, meetings take place
not only operational,
but also with a brainstorming.
We solve something,
solve problems,
empower employees to the level of their own
replacement for the tasks set.
Always carry out
an operational, deep,
detailed feedback on the results of the activity.
The next competence of the manager
is leadership.
This is one of the most
difficult competencies,
because leadership
is very easy to understand,
to see.
It is a charismatic leader,
as they usually say.
A charismatic leader who wants to follow.
But it is very difficult
to give leadership
a definition, to drive it into the framework.
Because sometimes
a person is very charming
and you want to follow him too.
But he does not have such a loud voice,
some bright charisma.
But you also want to follow him,
you listen to him.
I would like to put
not a dilemma,
but a manager as an administrator
and a manager as a leader.
A manager administers,
and a leader is engaged in innovations.
That is, the leader is always looking ahead.
A manager
supports more,
and a leader develops.
That is, the administrator supported the employee somewhere,
and the leader constantly develops.
He shows
positive moments,
where there is a growth zone
of our employee.
An administrator or a manager
is more of a builder,
and a leader is an architect.
A builder is the one who performs,
and an architect is the one who invents
what needs to be built.
A manager accepts reality
as it is, because he has
a clearly set task in the Smart format,
and he cannot go somewhere to the left or to the right.
A leader
changes reality more.
He looks at how to make it better,
and he changes the whole process
to achieve the goal
more effectively.
A manager or an administrator
relies more on control,
and a leader trusts the employees.
They do it on their own.
A manager has a short-term view,
and a leader sees
the future.
A manager asks how and when,
and a leader asks what
and why.
A manager gives time to the details,
and a leader looks at the horizon.
To sum up,
a manager does things right,
and a leader does
the right things.
If we put a dilemma
or a weight cup,
what is more important
to me as a manager
to focus more on?
To achieve high profits?
What is more important?
This or high profits?
According to the research,
it is very important
to do both.
It is not a choice between
both.
You have to do both
in equal proportions.
You have to devote
as much time as possible
to high profits.
It is about
caring for clients
who bring money
to our company.
It is about caring for employees.
The more satisfied
our employees are,
the more satisfied our clients are.
Accordingly, we will get profits.
It is about focusing on tasks,
goals,
papers, standards,
and focusing on people.
Because people are behind
these tasks.
People are doing these tasks.
It is about business development,
investing money in innovation,
in business, in development.
It is about
investing financial resources
in people's development.
It is important to do both.
It is very difficult to choose.
We cannot choose if we want to be effective
and if we want our company
to develop and work further.
It is about toughness.
Sometimes you need to demand
toughness, clarity,
and reason from your employees.
It is about delicacy.
When a person
has not fulfilled his task,
we have already discussed it,
when we give feedback.
It is about demanding,
supporting,
money,
and entertainment.
It is about hard work and hard play.
How to make it so
that you will not work
for a day.
It is about
how to turn hard work
into hard play
so that everyone
enjoys it.
It is about
financial reward
that is expressed
in all material stimuli.
It is about moral reward
that our employees need.
It is about a manager
and a person.
It is about treating people
as employees
according to their functions,
duties, rules,
and treating them
as individuals.
It is about making decisions
with your head
and heart.
It is about informing
and listening.
It should not be a one-way conversation.
You should not say
what you are informing
and doing.
You should listen
what people say
when they work.
We can learn a lot
from our employees.
They know how
to make the work
faster,
more efficient,
and more efficient.
It is about taking care
of the company.
It is about building the future.
There will be no future
without a future.
It is about autonomy.
Each person is a team.
It is about passion
and suffering.
It is about good ideas
and good values.
Everything is important
in a company.
I want to wish you
to approach your work
not only from a functional
and rational point of view,
but also from an emotional point of view.
Emotional competence
is one of the most important
competencies
that are important
for the work of a manager.
Go for it!